Mithril update 2026-06-10 (#795)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-06-10-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-06-10-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the implementation of the SNARK-friendly genesis certificate, and the type consistency and naming alignment refactoring of the SNARK recursive circuit. They continued work on the prover input and the SNARK proof verification of the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives, and on adapting the certificate chain to support the recursive SNARK.

Additionally, they completed the support for DMQ ledger peers, the enforcement of the DMQ message id format, and the prototype of the Cardano node ledger state certification. They continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle and on updating the ledger state snapshot selection in artifacts.

> Finally, the team completed the upgrade of the DMQ node to `0.6.0.0`, the removal of the Mithril nodes support in the devnet, and continued work on the optimization of the end-to-end tests for SNARK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed the implementation of the SNARK-friendly genesis certificate and the type-consistency and naming-alignment refactoring for the SNARK recursive circuit. They continued work on the prover input and the SNARK proof verification of the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives, and on adapting the certificate chain to support the recursive SNARK.

Additionally, they completed support for DMQ ledger peers, enforcement of the DMQ message ID format, and a prototype for Cardano node ledger state certification. They also continued shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle and updating the ledger state snapshot selection in artifacts.

Finally, the team completed the upgrade of the DMQ node to `0.6.0.0`, removed support for Mithril nodes in the devnet, and continued work on optimizing the end-to-end tests for SNARK.
```
